It was approximately two thousand years ago that Jesus declared I will build my church. And He did exactly that second chapter of the Book of Acts. We read of the establishing of the Lord ' s Church. And as the decades passed and turned into centuries, apostasy engulfed the church, until the religious landscape looked nothing like original pristine Christianity. And that landscape remainchains enlarge measure. Much of the religious landscape today has very little connection to New Testament Christianity. Does the Church exist today ? Absolutely, it does. Are there congregations of the Lord ' s people today that are doing all that they can to see that the church continues to exist in pristine formabsolutely But if you look at the religious world in general in what is referred to today sometimes as Christendom there is so much that is so far removed from pristine simple New Testament Christianity. And so if we wanted to express our plea in a single word, our plea would be calledrestoration the restoration of pure New Testament Christianity. And as we think about that concept this morning, I want for us to take our minds back to the eighth century BC, when a young man of but twenty five years of age ascended to the throne of the nation of Judah. The king ' s name was Hezekiah and the inspired assessment of Hezekiah ' s life and reign is summarized in Second Kings, eighteen verses five and six. Doug read it just a momentgo I call your attention to it again. He trusted in the Lord, the God of Israel, so that there was none like him among all the kings of Judah after him, nor among those who were before him, for he held fast to the Lord. He did not depart from following him, but kept the commandments that the Lord had commanded Moses. Hezekiah was able to accomplish in his day, something that some folks today are saying cannot be accomplished. Restoration, the restoration of godsis religion. And how did Hezekiah do that ? Well, we ' ll look at that momentarily, but at this point, I want for us to remember that as Hezekiah began his restoration process, I was forced to remember what he didn ' t do. Hezekiah did not accomplish a restoration of God ' s religion by holding unity summits with his religious neighbors. He did not accomplish his restoration by standing before large crowds and exchanging personal copies of the Law of Moses with somebodyfrom some other religious group. He didn ' t accomplish his restoration by calling for tolerance of doctrines that were different from what God had stated in the law, Though some today among us are doing those things in an attempt to bring about some type of union. Hezekiah didn ' t do that. What did he do. Let ' s look at the specifics of his restoration. First of all, what specifictypically did Hezekiah do ? Well, first of all, the cleansed the temple were going to be taking not only some thoughts from Second Kings eighteen, but the parallel account in Second Chronicles chapters twenty nine through thirty one. So you might to put a marker in Second Kings eighteen and turn over to Second Chronicles Twenty nine. First thing that Hezekiah did was assemble the Levis together, those that had temple responsibilities, Notice what he said to them, and Second Chronicles Twenty nine, Beginning in verse four, He brought in the priests and the Levis and assembled them in the square on the east, and said to them, Hear me, Levy ! It ' s now consecrate yearsyourselves and consecrate the house of the LORD, the God of your fathers, and carry out the filth from the holy place. He assembled the priests together the Levi ' s together, and he says, First of all, gentlemen, you need to purify yourselves, consecrate purify yourselves, and once you ' ve done that, go into that temple and clean out all of the filth that is in there. Well, that specifically involved removing all unclean objects. Evidently, the temple had become a storehouse for all kinds of things, things that God had never intendgood to be a part of the temple itself. They had just piled a bunch of things in there that were unclean according to Mosaic law, and he said, you need to get in there and get that stuff out. It doesn ' t belong. And they did that. They took the unclean objects out and dumped them into the Kedron Valley. The Bible says that in sixteen days the temple was cleansed and Second Chronicles, Twenty nine, verse thirty five says, The service of the house of the Lord was restored. English Standard version, Your translation may have something. The service of the houseof the Lord was set in order. The temple was cleansed Number two, specifics of Hezekiah ' s restoration. Number to cleanse the temple. Number one, Number two, he reinstated the sacrificial system and the observance of the Passover celebration. I ' ve probably the case that some in previous years to Hezekiah ' s restoration had continued to do what they could as far as sacrificing and things of that sort. But by and large the Passover had been forgotten, and Hezekiah decided We are going to observe the Passover again, And so he sent couriers out ininto the nation of Judah with a message from the king that we will assemble and observe the Passover once again. Hezekiah sent messengers out. That said, We are restoring the Passover observance Do you realize that when he sent these men out they were not very well received ? Look in your Bible Second Chronicles, thirty, verse ten, The text says the careers went from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh and as far as Zebulun But they laughed them to scorn and matalk to them. That ' s what happens, brethren. Few stand up today and breach restoration the way God presents it As people having to change themselves and bring themselves into conformity with biblical patterns, you ' ll get a very similar reaction. You may be laughed to scorn and mocked, but the couriers went anyway.They took the message of the king and many people came back for the celebration of the Passover meal. And what a celebration they had singing sacrifices being made again, an encouraging message coming from the king. What a joyous occasion. And do you know why there was such joy ? Because they just simply did what God said they were supposed to do ? I wonder sometimes where that joy is todaycan we not find it within ourselves. And I ' m speaking about the church generally and mainly among those among us who are digressing Why do we think ? Why does some of us think we have to falsely manufacture enthusiasm ? Why can we not find it within ourselves, the ability to find joy and happiness and reason to celebrate simply because we are able to say we have done exactly what God has asked us to docelebration because Second Chronicles, thirty verse twenty six, There was great joy in Jerusalem, for since the time of Solomon the son of David, there was not the like in Jerusalem, They had not seen things so good spiritually since the days of Solomon. If we can ' t find happiness and joy and satisfaction in simply being able to say, You know what we have fulfilled ? The responsibilities that God has given usThe problem lies not with what ' s in the Scripture. The problem lies with what ' s in our hearts. What did Hezekiah do ? The specifics of his restoration ? Number one, He cleansed the temple, He set the service of the house of the Lord in order. He reinstated the sacrificial system and the observance of the Passover and the. Number three, He destroyed all signs of apostasy after they had gathered for this great celebration. Second Chronicles thirty one verse one says that as the people then returned from Jerusalem to their various tribal homelands as they went, they smashed to pieces allof the idols that they had been previously worshipping and Second Kings, eighteen even mentions one particular idol that in the beginning was no idle. Remember back in numbers. Chapter twenty, When God ' s people were in the wilderness, and because of their constant complaining and rebellion, God had sent fiery serpents through out among the people that were biting people, and those people were dying, and the people cried out to Moses for help. God says Moses, make a snake of brass or bronze, put it on a pole, and hold it up among the people until those any that have been bitten by the snakes, They ' ll just look at thatthere ' ll be healed. Moses did that Well, that snake was still around. That bronze serpent still existed in the days of Hezekiah but the people were now worshiping it. They had given it a name, Neustadt and they worship this thing that God had originally created. Had Moses create for the purpose of people being able to express their faith in Jehovah Now they had made it into a God of it ' s own. Hezekiah destroyed it. So as the people went back to their homelands they destroyed all signs of apostasy and soy. Summary statement is made in Second Chronicles Thirty oneone vs. Twenty and twenty one. Thus Hezekiah did throughout all Judah, and he did what was good and right and faithful before the Lord his God, and every work that he undertook in the service of the House of God, and in accordance with the law and the commandments seeking his God. He did it with all his heart and prospered What a great restoration movement Hezekiah was involved in now havinglooked at the specifics of Hezekiah ' s restoration. Let ' s consider some similarities between then and now. Some similarities between then and now. As Hezekiah became king and looked out at the nation of Judah and pondered Judah ' s spiritual condition, Hezekiah came to realize that he found himself right in the middle of a great landslide of apostasy The nation was basically gone spiritually What did he do when he looked around him and sawso much apostasy So many things going on that were so foreign to the Bible to the Old Testament law ? Hezekiah reached for the solid and shifting security of divine revelation, and he secured himself to it. He looked to the law of Moses, and he said, This is the only place where security can be found. This is the only standard by which we will ever bring the nation back into God ' s good graces And so he discoveredwhat the law taught and communicated that to the people and said We will abide by this. It was their only hope for restoration, And Hezekiah approached his restoration with the confidence and the assurance that he could accomplish the task. We ' re being told by some today in the Church that restoration is not something that can actually be accomplished, It ' s just something that we strive for that we shoot for. We can never really be so bold or arrogant, they would say as to indicate that the Church itself exists definitely and certainly in our world. We want to reststore it and we try to restore it and we ' re pushing through the process. But to say that the church exists and there are people that are not in it that claim to be in it is something that we ' re told by some is not even possible. You can ' t accomplish restoration. You just try to. Hezekiah didn ' t approach it that way and I submit to you that restoration in his day is a lot harder than it is. An hour ' s think about restoring people to the specifics of the Law of Moses. You had things like specific location that was necessaryfor certain parts of your worship. Temple area in Jerusalem. You want to restore Passover You ' ve got to get the whole nation to come to a specific location for that worship to be done. You had specific buildings, the temple itself, where a certain worship was to be conducted. There was a special priesthood, special objects of worship that had to be involved, the animals and sacrifices. All that. You don ' t have to worry about anything like that would New Testament Christianity. You want to restore New Testament Christianity ? It all boils down to two issues. First issue, Conversion, Can I read my New Testament and come to an underseastanding of what I must do to be saved and be added to the church ? Can I get that information from the New Testament ? And then once I ' ve gotten that information, can I accomplish what the information says I must accomplish ? Yes, you do what they did. You become what they were alright. Well when that happens, when somebody obeys the teaching of the New Testament that that the New Testament says will place you into the church, then the church exists. The church has been restored. So that simple. Second issue, Can I also read from my New Testament and understand what it takes for me to continue tobe faithful as a part of that body ? And then once I understand what I must do to be faithful, can I then accomplish that answer ? Yes, you can. Then the Church continues to exist as long as people continue to do what the Bible says they must do in order to maintain their faithfulness to God. That ' s it Will tell me. It ' s some long drawn out process where we ' re just fumbling around and just meandering around trying to find some concept that is really not findable That ' s not biblical restoration. That ' s not restoration at all. That is nonsense. You anchor yourself to Godgod ' s truth, which is understandable and doable You do what they did, You will be what they were. I wonder though if some of the hass some of the detractors in Hezekiah ' s day, some of those that when the couriers were sent out that said, Hey, we ' re restoring God ' s religion. We ' re going to observe the Passover again like God instructed us. Wonders. Those couriers went out and some of those that mocked them and made fun of them as they did. I wonder if they said things like, Well, that ' s arrogant. Who does he think Hei really think that a restoration could be accomplished ? That they laugh at Hezekiah and ridicule his pattern list hermeneutics that they laugh at him for trying to observe some kind of blueprint religion ? Well, that ' s terminology that ' s being thrown at faithful members of the Church today that are saying the church can be restored and has been restored. That ' s just pattern list blueprint religion. Wonder if some of Hezekiah ' s detractors shame him for his intolerance is not being taughttolerant of hush tan worship. Yet faithful members of the church today are ridiculed for not being tolerant of false religion for calling upon people to give up the doctrines of men and come back to the pure doctrine of New Testament Christianity. So there are some similarities between then and now. But as we try to wrap things up, one forced to consider for things that helps to bring aboutthe restoration of biblical religion in the days of Hezekiah For things that I believe we also need today to see that the Lord ' s church continues to exist in our day, so that the soul of the restoration continues as an established reality. What was it that brought about this restoration movement in the days of Hezekiah Well, let ' s let the texts tell us. First of all, there was a recognition, a renewed recognition of the anger of God. I want you to look at Second Chronicles, thirty verse eight, When Hezekiahassembled the priests and Levites and others together to reestablish this Passover and the sacrificial system, he said, Second Chronicles, thirty verse eight, Do not now be stiffnecked as your fathers were, but yield yourselves to the Lord and come to his sanctuary, which He has consecrated forever, and serve the Lord, your God, that his fierce anger may turn away from you. Hezekiah said to the people, You need to come back and observe the Passover like God has instructed, Come to his sanctuary and worship so that the fierceness of his wrath may turn from youyou realize he ' s using the anger of God, the wrath of God as motivation for people to straighten out their lives. But somebody may say, Well, yeah, but that ' s Old Testament. God was a God of wrath and anger in the Old Testament. But we live under the New Testament. We ' ve got grace now. Oh, no grace in the Old Testament, Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Genesis six eight, And what about these passages ? It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Is that Old Testament As Hebrews Ten thirty one, Our God is a consuming firethat ' s New Testament Hebrews twelve or twenty nine, The Lord will one day return in flaming fire, taking vengeance on those who know not God and who obey not the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. New Testament Second Thessaloniki One, verses seven through nine, And so seeing that all of these things are thus to be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in all holy living and godliness Second Peter, Chapter three, verse eleven, That ' s New Testament. If wewe could have a renewed recognition and sense of the anger of God, it might help some among us to give up their digressive attitudes and spirits and turn back to pure New Testament. Christianity, Number two What brought about restoration in the days of Hezekiah Day ? A renewed sense of shame, Renewed sense of shame. Let the text speak to a. Second Chronicles, thirty, verse fifteen, They slaughtered the Passover lamb on the fourteenth day of the second month, and the priests and the Levis were ashamed sothat they consecrated themselves and brought burnt offerings to the house of the Lord. The priests and Levites were ashamed. Some people. They tell us that that feeling a sense of shame is really not good force. Well, the Bible doesn ' t teach that. It ' s a matter of fact. God wants our sins to cause a shame, according to pro or to a Psalm. Thirty one were seventeen, and in the New Testament Second Thessaloniki, three, verse fourteen, The Bible says that when when faithful Christians withdraw their fellowship from those that walk disorderly part of the reason for that is that he may be ashamedgod wants our sins to shame us. Why so that will turn from them ? Why would we ever turn from anything of which we ' re not ashamed Today ? However, many of us are like those in the days of Jeremiah, Chapter six, verse fifteen, Who cannot even blush ? We need a renewed sense of shame. And three, What brought about restoration in Hezekiah ' s Day ? Faithfulness to Divine instruction. Second Chronicles, thirty one, verse twenty says Hezekiahhi I did what was good and right and faithful. You know, it doesn ' t really matter what we do or how we may try to justify it. The real issue when it comes to doing things in the name of religion is this is an authorized by God. Is it faithful ? Can we find sanction for it in the new test ? It really doesn ' t matter if it brings in lots of people, It really doesn ' t matter if it creates a warm, accepting environment. The real issueissue is, Is it authorized by God ? If it is, let ' s do it, brethren, If it ' s not, leave it alone. And then number four, What fostered restoration in the days of Hezekiah A ceasing of negligence, a ceasing of negligence. Second Chronicles Twenty nine, verse eleven, My sons do not now be negligent for the Lord has chosen you to stand in His presence. If restoration will be preparesituated in our day. We ' ve got to live up to our responsibilities, whatever our particular responsibilities may be, whether we are preacher, elder, deacon, teacher, encourager whatever your role is in the body of Christ. If we would see restoration perpetuated we will not see it. In the absence of meeting responsibility, we must jettison negligenceas We find ourselves today in very similar surroundings to the days of Hezekiah with apostasy practically everywhere we look. Let ' s find courage in what He did and the faith in God that he had. And let us continue to call the religious world in general out of it ' s apostasy And the segments of the Lord ' s church that have been affected called them out of apostasy and back into step with New Testament tooichi The challenge is great, but God is greater. Let us be apart of His march, the march of truth, perpetuating of true New Testament Christianity. But it all starts with the individual. It all starts with you. Are you a part of it ? Are you a part of the body of Christ ? Are you a part of the church that Jesus established two thousand years ago ? If you ' re not, you can. Berestoration can take place in your life if you ' ll just do what they did based upon your faith in Jesus Christ as the Son of God, knowing and understanding that He died for your sins, then based upon that faith, repent of your sins, Confess your faith and then be immersed in water and raised to walk in newness of life. That ' s what they did. And when they did that, the Lord added them to the church. Acts two, verse forty seven, The Lord can add you to His church today if you ' ll do those same things. ChristianHave you not Been walking in truth, than a restoration can happen in your life, too, if you ' ll turn from your sins, whatever they are, and seek God ' s forgiveness and prayer. Acts eight twenty two, and you can be restored to the church, whatever your need might be. If we can help you, we invite you to come while we stand together and sing.